[TOC]

# History

## How we got started

Gluu was founded in 2009 by Mike Schwartz. After selling his ISP to
Verio in 1998, Mike advised many large companies on identity and access
management, directory services, and application security. In late 2008,
Mike had a hunch that Web single sign-on was too complex, too
proprietary and too expensive for many organizations. He felt that a
utility approach to SSO using open source software could provide an
alternative to expensive enterprise solutions. The Gluu Server was
envisioned as an integrated identity platform, based on free open source
software, to make application security available to significantly
greater number of organizations.

## Versions 1 and 2

Versions 1 of the Gluu Server was based on Sun OpenSSO and OpenDS. Mike
presented the idea at an OpenSSO community group at the European
Identity Conference in Munich in May 2009. Version 1 worked a little,
but there was no easy way to manage it. Version 2 of the Gluu Server had
a better UI, but it was just a facade--the UI didn't actually do
anything to configure OpenSSO. Version 2 was launched after Mike
Schwartz met with members of the InCommon steering committee in San
Antonio in October 2009. At that meeting, Mike expressed concern that
OpenSSO might be end-of-life. Oracle had recently purchased Sun
Microsystems, and before ForgeRock was formed, it seemed possible that
Oracle would simply migrate OpenSSO customers to Oracle Access Manager.
Bob Morgan from the University of Washington convinced Mike that the
Shibboleth IdP was a reasonable alternative, and arguably had even more
features in SAML, including fine grain access release policies, and a
better approach for multi-party federation. As the InCommon federation's
efforts to evangelize SAML federation would support Gluu's message,
switching had marketing advantages, and would reduce the event risk
around OpenSSO. Shortly thereafter, a new project from scratch was
launched for Gluu Server v3 with the goal of using templates to simplify
the management of the Shibboleth IdP.

## Version 3

The first live demo of the Gluu Server was presented at an InCommon
event in Atlanta, GA in early November 2010. At that demo, Hakeem Fahm,
then IT director at the University of the District of Columbia, was
impressed and decided that the Gluu Server was exactly what his campus
needed to join InCommon. Delivering the first Gluu Server into
production took three months. The order was placed before Thanksgiving,
and it was finally delivered in early February 2011. Mike helped write
some of the python scripts (few, if any of which are still in use), and
establish the operating procedures for delivery of the Gluu Server. In
2011, a few more campuses also adopted the Gluu Server.

## Enter OAuth2

OAuth2 had been on Gluu's roadmap since inception, but work started due
to a consulting project Gluu had undertaken for
[IDCubed](https://idcubed.org). This is the reason the OX software is
MIT license--IDCubed insisted on it. The project was a flop--Gluu
couldn't deliver the graph based federated data solution quickly enough.
But as a result, Gluu was able to accelerate the launch of the OX OAuth2
based features, first with OpenID Connect in late 2011. Then in late
2012, Gluu followed by introducing support for the User Managed Access
Protocol, which Mike felt provided an Oauth2 based solution for access
management that was superior to Computer Associates' proprietary
Siteminder access management framework.

